 
 Notes on agile methodology:
 
 In IT we are using this model for software development lifecycle. In simple words we can say it refers starting and ending of the software lifecycle.
 Earlier we used to practice waterfall model/Vmodel/sprial model. Now are are using Agile.
 Following these methods leads to time consumption in delivering software to clients/customers.
 
 
 What is agile? In simple words Agile is fast.
 In this methodology we can deliver the software with in short span of time.
 3 months/6 months.
 
 for example, in Covid situation, govt developed online applications/portals in short span of time.
 -> covid vaccination details linked to passport.
 -> Uper need to update passenger details in their site instantly.
 
 In old methodology, they follow following steps befor developing software.
 1. Requirments gathering- business analyst.
 2. Requirments analysis
 	dev/testers/tools
	training/recruitment
	hardware requirments
3. planning
4. Designiing
5. Development
6. Testing
7. Implementation

It takes 6 months by paper. But if some abnormal circumstances araises, then it takes 1 year to deliver.

to avoid this, dev team creates one pager to collect details,
for ex, to create application for online purchase, they collect details about,
1. App
	offer details
2. online purchase details
3. mode of payment
(homepage/grocery page/items selection/payment/message)

EPIC:
Collecting these details is called as EPIC.

Whole project requirment is EPIC and sub-requirments(topics involved) are known as stories or user stories.

(homepage-user story1
/grocery page-user story2
/items selection--user story3
/payment-user story4
/message-user story5)

now one user story has several tasks.

For example, for homepage-user story1
-creating URL
-cloud
-design
-development
-login
-admin

likewise development(as a whole team plan to deliver this tasks within client requirment time)

SPRINT:
Sprint is the time frame of delivering the project with in specific intervals.

For example, 1 week/2 week. With int his period, dev team needto deliver whatever planned with user stories and tasks.
Sprint can be varied with each organizations.

Sprint planning:
Note: In Agile, we dont have team lead role.

They use poker cards which gives the complexity of the task. All the team members should
provide their complexity to the team.

for ex: complexity 1 refers to 8 hours(can be varied with each organizations).

once we planned and assigned the tasks for specific resources,
To track the activities we should have-

Daily standup call
	what i did yesterday?
	Whats my plan today?
	issues/hurdles.

Sprint demo with customer.

Sprint retrospective meeting -
	To share feedback and appriciations.
	
Here they share the feedback on below topics in open forum.
- Strength
- Weekness
- Threats
- oppurtunities
	



 